My 2016 Visa Internship
I’ve had the pleasure to intern as a Product Manager within the Merchant Sale Solutions department at Visa this summer (all summer sixteen). This summer was full of challenges, problem solving, data compiling, and presenting. With that being said, I’ve loved every moment of it. I grew as a person this summer. Not only my career grew, but my personality and passions did as well. I developed a love for what I was doing and the people I worked with.
I came into Visa in May for the rest of the summer. I had absolutely no idea what to expect or what I would be doing. I actually came in pretty scared. My cousin is a Product Manager at Microsoft. After years of hearing what he did and what was expected of him, I knew it was a position I’d love to do, but I didn’t know what all of it would entail. I kept questioning if I was ready to take on a position like this, but what’s life if you don’t take risks? 
On my very first day, I was introduced to the department I would be working within. I was given an overview of our team, a description of the active projects, and learned how Visa impacts others. I was pleasantly surprised within my first week when I saw the kind of work I would be doing. Talking to clients, researching, making spreadsheets, redesigning websites, everything that I actually enjoy doing. To a lot of people, this would sound like work, but it actually sounded fun to me. I was excited to not be stuck behind a desk coding all day! I know many people enjoy that, and I have the absolute most respect for them, but I personally struggle with doing that day after day after day. I was actually really excited to connect with other people within and outside of Visa, hear about their experiences and to just get to know everyone. I love talking and communicating with others (as everyone already knows…), so I became very excited to be in this position.
Week 2:
As a week went by, I already began to meet so many people. I began to build a rapport with my manager, coworkers, other interns, and really anyone I crossed paths with. At the beginning of the second week, I was introduced to a group at Visa called YPV (Young Professionals at Visa). I remember everyone being so nice and welcoming. Everyone related well with me, as most of them were fairly fresh out of college and have only been at Visa for a short period of time. I felt so encouraged to be here after. Shortly after this, I was informed that I would have to book my first flight to San Francisco, as there was an intern summit taking place there in late July. I had never been on a plane before and barely have been outside of Texas, so I was absolutely terrified to say the least! To make things even more scary, I didn’t really know any of the interns, so I figured I would be traveling alone. As scared as I was, I booked my first flight and continued to worry what this trip would be like. I was very anxious, in a good way, however because a trip to California has to be exciting! I’ve always wanted to visit the Bay Area, so as nervous as I was, I couldn’t help but overcome my fear with excitement. 
Speaking of not knowing any interns, I was in a completely separate building from most of the Visa employees. There was only our team and another department, CyberSource, in this building, so I never really had the opportunity to see other interns and meet them. Or so I thought. I later discovered, during my third week, that there actually were two other interns in my building. I felt like I had always seen them around, but I wasn’t too sure if they were definitely interns or not. I continuously wanted to introduce myself, but I didn’t really know how to approach them.
Also during this week, I was introduced to my first actual project, redesigning a collaborative and organizational website. I was first asked to brainstorm design ideas. I was so excited! I love anything that deals with design and art, so this was right up my ally. I learned to work with a mock development tool, Balsamiq, and was able to design wireframes for what the website would look like based on my team’s needs. It was great for me because I got to have practice with producing a result given unbounded instruction, meaning I had a ton of flexibility with what I could do.
Alongside this project, I was also asked to find articles that expressed new innovation that would give Visa a better insight of the technology that is currently being developed or is already out there. I was able to research key words such as payment acceptance and emerging technology to find what I was looking for.
Week 3:
One day during my third week, we had a mandatory speaker session for all the interns. Once it had ended, I noticed two guys walking back to my building, so I risked it and introduced myself. They were interns! I ended up talking to them for an hour or so and realized I actually had a lot more in common than I thought. I was so worried that the interns here would be so much like the interns at my last internship, who were quiet, complacent, and very cliquish, so I didn’t get my hopes up about being friends with them. We also had another intern join our building later this week. I was really excited to have another girl in the building and began to talk to her from the start. She seemed really nice and I was excited to get to know her as well. Luckily, the recruiting team threw us a social event and I was able to get to know some of the other interns. If you know me, you know I’m somewhat selective with the people I get along with, so I was really surprised to make so many connections!
On another note, during my third week, I met with the UX team and they were able to help me improve my developed website design and organization. They also offered very helpful tips. I never realized how much consideration is put into designing a website; everything from the layout to what a button will look like. They really helped me consider decisions with the small details and helped me improve my vision a lot! After meeting with them, I was able to finish up my second website redesign proposal to my team. 
Following this, I was introduced to a new presentation at hand, a Credit 101 presentation. This presentation covered increasing credit scores, how banks make money, how to use a credit card, and credit card comparisons. I already knew a lot about credit scores and credit cards, but it was really interesting to think about all the ways you can increase your score and all the possible benefits on cards out there. 
As a side task, I was also asked to speak to MARS about coming up with monthly reports for our team. It was tricky since I didn’t have complete access to MARS information, but I luckily got the access I needed, eventually.
With all these tasks at hand, and as they were all major projects, I started worry about my ability to complete them all in a timely manner. But, I worry all the time, so this isn’t anything new (Matthew 6:34). I was really learning how to prioritize and to make sure I met all expectations of me. 

Week 4-5:
During this time, I continued to work on researching articles regarding acceptance and emerging technology. As I was doing this, I received an email that had last year’s Competitive Analysis Presentation attached to it. The information attached in this was basically what I had been researching for and had almost identical topics. After receiving this, I had assumed that my team wanted a PowerPoint from me as well. I began turning my list of articles into my own Competitive Analysis Presentation. I later found out that I didn’t have to go to this extent, but my team went with it and planned on receiving a presentation from me. I was able to give a couple practice presentations to part of my team and received some constructive criticism back. I really appreciated it since I couldn’t even remember the last time I gave a presentation. I think it was in an English composition class my freshman year (2012) at UTSA to be exact.
Alongside this, I continued to work on my website redesign. After going through the UX team, I had the pleasure of presenting my mocks to my manager and the rest of my team. I turned my website redesign mocks into a final draft. I converted my mocks into a PDF file and added commentary describing what I had done. I sent an email to the entire team to get their feedback and approval. 
I also attended a regional update call where my team, and others not in the U.S., gave presentations over a skype call. It was really interesting to see how people from all over the world made decisions and had input over issues that we were dealing with here.
Outside of my projects, I was making more and more connections at Visa. I had the pleasure of reaching out to other members on my team who were over in San Francisco. I really enjoyed talking to a couple of the younger employees there because it was inspiring to see how they approached their job roles and how quickly they’ve been able to adjust to working in the payment industry. Your first full time job is always intimidating, but it’s the most important time to develop yourself as a professional. Talking to them made me feel more comfortable in my role and not as lost as I thought I was. 
I also was getting pretty close with the interns in my building along the way. Although they seemed much busier than me (CS probs), we still had time to talk and play ping pong. I got the chance to hang out with the interns outside of work, which turned out to be really fun! Again, I was really surprised I hung out with them so much. I usually road trip all over Texas on the weekends to visit my friends, but the interns kept me so busy that I had stayed in Austin pretty much every weekend, and that says a lot.
Week 6-7:
Week six started off with an introduction to another club at Visa, the Austin Golf Club. It was pretty similar to the vibe of YPV, but it was obviously golf centric. I made a budget sheet for this club, started a GDL (global distribution list), and set up the group page. I also began to plan a Top Golf event for the Austin Golf Club and even made an invite to send out to everyone. I also set up several meetings for YPV. 
Alongside this, I worked on a new spreadsheet after given new rule and floor limit changes. This spreadsheet would indicate what these changes were. I also had to make sure that the forms of currency matched up. I love analyzing data so this was a great task for me to do. 
Besides these tasks, I continued to update the website and finish up my Competitive Analysis Presentation. This was right after fourth of July weekend, and I was nervous to say the least. I prepared like crazy over the weekend, looking over all my information and giving practice presentations to everyone, from my parents to the other interns. 
Week seven came, and all I could think about was not messing up on my presentation. I prepped over and over and over for it like my life depended on it. I’m not a bad public speaker, my parents actually think I’m amazing at it, but it still freaks me out. I think I was even more nervous because it was in front of my coworkers and the VP of our team. I didn’t want to disappoint them, but they reassured me that they were supporting me. I went in and gave it, but I actually felt more confident than I thought I would once I began presenting. Overall, it ended up going really well! There were a few things I could improve on, but I thought it went great! I really appreciated the help from my team and the advice they gave. 
After my presentation, I began revising it to add a few more things my team would have liked included. These additions were very small and were things like using 2015 instead of 2014 or adding more examples of biometric payments. I felt really encouraged to finish this presentation once and for all!
During this week, I was also introduced to a POS Branding project where we would review whether merchants are in compliance or not. This sounded exciting to me since I’d get to look at some pretty well known companies and stores. 
Week 8:
The big week is here: traveling to San Francisco!! I was so excited and terrified at the same time. I had prepared weeks for this trip. I bought a ton of new clothes, even a satin bomber jacket, so I could have that Bay Area style. It literally took me a couple days to be completely done with packing. There were so many outfits I wanted to wear there, so it was hard to narrow it down. I was really into this because I’ve been into Bay Area rappers for a while now (rap is life) and I’m really interested in the West Coast culture. I already had an idea of what I wanted to check out while I was there because of this. With all my preparation, the day had come and I was on my way to the airport. I was so nervous when I walked into the airport that I was literally shaking. I had no idea what to expect or even what airport procedures were. I’m pretty sure the lady checking in my luggage thought I was insane by the way I was acting. Luckily, I had my dad who walked me all the way to the security gate before leaving and tried to calm me down. Although I was flying with a couple of the interns I knew, they got there before me and didn’t wait, so I had to do all of this on my own (#annoyed). Somehow and some way, I actually survived security and learned a few things about airports (aka I’m a pro now). I now know to not keep Chapstick in your pocket while going through the scanners and I actually know what a gate is. Getting on the airplane was interesting too. I was afraid that I would have a panic attack on this thing since I’m super claustrophobic and I’ve heard nothing but horror stories about much little room you have. But overall, I survived and that’s all that matters. Landing in San Francisco was amazing to me. It was like a completely different world. I loved that it had somewhat of an Austin vibe (that I love), yet it was just different. Everyone was very aloof and kept to themselves, unless you approached them and then they were still pretty nice. I felt like I fit in and fell in love. We had the intern summit for a couple days and it was amazing to hear from the speakers who have been with Visa for a while, have contributed so much to the company, and knew exactly what they were doing. I enjoyed attending and met a lot of new people along the way. The last day was also amazing since I rented a car and traveled over to Berkley, a place I’ve always wanted to visit. One of the interns came along with me and made our little road trip a lot of fun. Our first stop was UC Berkley.  We both fell in love with the campus and the students, who were very nice and helpful when we got lost. We also ate lunch on College Avenue at Gordo’s Taqueria, where Gerald (G-Eazy aka bae) used to work at before he went to college. It was actually really good, and I’m still craving it to this day! I also had the chance to drive across the Golden Gate bridge on the way to the airport. Leaving was probably the hardest part, and I almost missed my flight! As a first time flyer, I literally had a heart attack thinking I wouldn’t make it. Nonetheless, I was glad to be back to my true home, Austin (insert heart emoji). I luckily had my parents waiting for me when I landed and I was on my way!
The next day back in the office was fun, as we were continuing our POS Branding project. We actually went secret shopping almost all day! After constantly going day after day in San Francisco, it was nice to not have to sit in the office all day. We had a lot of fun and were actually working by shopping, and who gets to do that?! When we got back to the office, we started filling out the supporting documents for this project with the data we got and compared it to data from a third party. I pretty much did this for the rest of the week.
Week 9-10:
The next couple of weeks were pretty rough. I unfortunately caught strep throat over the weekend and was struggling in the office. Monday was a good day and I felt great. We had POS Branding meetings and basically went over the documents we made last week and created a to do list of what else we needed to finish this project. On Tuesday, I felt absolutely awful. I ended up going to the doctor and spent the rest of the day working from home. The week didn’t get much better, but I was able to struggle through the week in the office and get as much work done as I could. I added more information to my Competitive Analysis Presentation and began working on my Final Intern Presentation that I would give in a couple weeks.
The next week, week ten, was a lot better however. I finished up my final intern presentation and discussed final updates to our website with my manager and coworker. I also was finishing up my Credit 101 Presentation that I’ll give at the end of my internship. I attended a lot of presentations this week too, including one about a New Hire Graduate Program that Visa offers and a Resume Building Workshop where recruiters gave helpful tips and reviewed our resumes. Alongside, we had another team meeting with others globally, which was very informative to get a bigger scope of what my team was doing. There were also a few spreadsheets I got to make and update, and you know how much I love entering data. 
Week 11-12:
The final weeks. I’ve been really excited for school to start and to see all of my friends, but I’m also getting really sad thinking my time here is ending. My projects are all wrapping up and I can’t believe that I won’t be up at 8am every day. My manager came back after a long few weeks of traveling, so it was great to see him again! I had my final review meeting with him, and it’s always a pleasure meeting with him. This week I also got to watch the CyberSource interns give their final intern presentations, which helped me get a feel for what mine might be like. It was also interesting to see what they had done this summer, since I would only hear snippets. I was also finishing entering information that was given to me for the website I designed. The website included everything from about our team, client lists, client details, country details, to important documents. This project actually ended up lasting all summer, but I’m proud to have contributed something so impactful to my team. I also finished up the POS Branding documents with updated audit results and uploaded them all to our website. After we finished this, I attended a meeting with part of the Visa Marketing department and they discussed what our next step would be. It was really interesting to hear their perspective of this project after we had been working on it for so long! I finally finished up adding commentary to my Credit 101 Presentation and had that ready to present by the end of my last week. Over the weekend, and Monday morning, I prepared to give my Final Intern Presentation. I put a lot of work into it and tried to include as many details as I could, without going overboard since it’s only a five-minutes long. I spent all day practicing as well, going through several run-throughs with the other interns. I gave my presentation to one of the Sr. VP’s, to other interns in Merchant Sales Solutions, one of the interns in my building, my recruiter, and my manger. I felt like I did really well and had received really good feedback, so I was really excited to have nailed it! As for the rest of the week, I’ve been wrapping everything up. I’ve been putting my final touches and comments on everything and determining which work I can keep to add to my portfolio.
As my last day approaches, I’m typing this and reflecting back makes me feel a sense of nostalgia. It really hits me that all of this will be gone by the end of the week. The friends I’ve made and the experience I’ve received has been absolutely priceless. Summer sixteen (Drake reference) has been one of the best and most fun summers I’ve had in a while. I’m really hoping I’ll keep in contact with my manager, coworkers, and fellow interns because I will miss them. I’ve grown to love and respect Visa as a company and as a place that harbors such great people. Here’s to all summer sixteen (again, Drake reference). 

<3,
Rachelle Rogers
Product Management Intern, Global Acquiring and Global Merchant Core Products
